All right now that we're at the end we're going to add a few things to kind of make our piece of artwork
pop and also look more professional.
Now you may be designing a character for various reasons.
It might be for marketing.
It might be for actual game play.
It might be for an animated short that you're creating.
I'm just going to show you a few things you can do to help create more of a presentable character design.
So the first thing I want to do real quick is I want to add a shadow to the edge of his head just to
make his head pop out a little bit more.
So I'm going to come to the head folder then I'm going to come down to the head shape which is our original
value and on this layer I'm going to add an effect the way you do that is by coming down here to this
little f x symbol.
So we'll click that and it gives us some options.
What we want to do is we want to do an inner glow.
So we'll hit inner glow and you can see it adds a glow around the edge.
This can also be used as a shadow so the color we want is going to be the same color as the shadow on
his forehead from the goggles.
So we're going to come over here to our color selection will click that.
And now we can use our eyedropper to select that color in there.
All right looks good.
OK.
Now I think the size of my shadow looks good but just in case yours doesn't.
You can see here you have all these different ways that you can change your shadow so you can see here
the choke changes the heart or softness of your edge and the size will change the size of your shadow.
So let's bring that back down.
Right.
So then we can hit OK.
And I think that adds a little bit more depth to our image.
Now if you're creating this to present as a character design in itself you'd probably want to ground
your character and what that means is just giving it a little bit of floor right here for him to be
standing on.
The way we can do that is by first closing our head folder then we're going to come down to the very
bottom and right above the sketch.
We're going to add a new layer now on this layer.
We're going to add a shadow on the ground.
So I'm thinking we're going to use a grayish yellowish maybe in the lighter areas up here.
And we want to make sure our color is more towards the yellow side.
OK then let's use our brush and we're going to kind of paint in an area right here.
Just like that.
Now doesn't have to be perfect.
It can be a little messy a little abstract.
That's right.
Now let's take the same color and let's just darken it and let's maybe move it more towards the orange
side.
OK.
Then bringing down the size of our brush.
We can paint in a second line.
That will act is the darker part of our shadow.
Now if you want it can even add little bits of grass or rocks down here.
So I'm going to add some tiny little pieces of grass just paint them in
cool.
I'm going to do the same thing for a lighter color.
Saw recently that color going I'll just add in some more little pieces of grass
cool.
So now he's got a ground to stand on.
The next thing I want to show you is how to add texture to your character so you may want to add some
speckles on your character or you may want to add some watercolor type texture to it whatever it may
be.
You can easily add texture.
We're going to do this is by selecting all of our layers except for the background then we're going
to put them into a folder.
Next we're going to grab a texture.
Now I already have a watercolor texture here that I grabbed off the Internet.
It's really easy to find textures online.
All you have to do is google image search them and you can find everything from paper textures to rock
textures to wood textures whatever you want.
You can find it.
So once you brought it into Photoshop let's just go ahead and copy it.
Then we're going to paste it into this docu
next what we want to do is we want to turn this player into a clipping mask.
Now since everything is in that folder it's going to create a clipping mask around everything that's
in that folder.
So we'll go layer create a clipping mask and you can see that watercolor paper is only showing up within
the shape of our character.
Next we're going to change our layer type to multiply that will allow us to see the texture and our
character and its colors through like so.
So now if we zoom in there you'll see we have some good texture on our character.
It looks like he was painted with watercolor.
Now let's just do one more example.
So you want to add some paint speckles in there.
We can go ahead and copy our paint speckled texture and paste it in.
Make sure you paste it in underneath this watercolor texture.
That way it'll automatically turn it into a clipping mask.
Next what we want to do is we want to change the layer type to screen.
What screen will do is it'll get rid of all the black and leave the white and we can bring down the
opacity.
And now you can see it leaves some nice speckling on our character.
Next thing I want to show you is how you can change colors on your character.
So let's come to the very top layer.
And then let's add a hue and saturation layer.
Now if we come up to the hue you can see if we change it it changes all the colors and we don't want
that.
So what we're going to do is we're going to come up here to this master dropdown menu.
Now you can see that it has all these different options for colors.
Well that's going to do is it's going to change whatever color you have selected.
So if we do yellow for example now everything that has a yellow in it will be affected when we start
changing the sliders.
So if we start changing the hue everything that's yellow will start changing colors.
If we turn up the saturation everything that's yellow will go up and saturation and we can also turn
down the darkness on everything that has yellow in it.
So pretty cool.
Lastly I want to show you how to add a cool glow to your character.
Sometimes you'll see and animations in games in anime they'll have a glow around them and I'm going
to show you how you can create that glow.
So we're going to open our full there back up.
It has all of our layers in it and we're going to select all of them including the bottom layer which
is the ground.
Then we're going to copy those.
By going control J on your keyboard and if you're on a Mac it's going to be command.
And now we've just copied all of those layers.
Next we're going to merge all of those together.
So now we have one solid image of our character.
We're going to drag that up to the very top of our layers and then we're going to use the one tool.
Now the one tool is this little tool right here.
The Haki for it is the letter W and what to do is it will select solid colors.
So if we click on this white area it will select everything that is white and let's hold down shift
and that will allow us to add other shapes to this so we can add in that empty space right there and
the empty space between his legs.
Now let's add a new layer above that and we're going to fill it with the color white so using our fill
tool will fill that in.
And since it's a completely new layer with nothing on it it will fill in everything so it'll fill this
outside area between the legs.
And over here just by clicking one.
Now what we want to do is unselect out of the selection and let's delete this copy of our character.
So Will had delete and now what we're left with is we're left with just this white outside shell.
So if I use my grab a move tool you see that I can grab it and move it around.
So it's there.
Let's undo that.
So it goes back into position.
Now let's go to our filters and we'll come down to learn.
Then wash and blur.
What this allows us to do is blur our layer.
So as you can see the white part of our layer is being blurred and it's seeping over onto our actual
character which is giving us the illusion of a back glow.
So I'm going to leave this at 3 pixels but if you want you can play around with this if you bring it
up.
You see how blurry it gets if you bring it down gets a less blurry.
But I'm going to leave it at 3 so I'm just going to type 3 in that I think that looks good.
Hit OK.
Now if that's too much glow for you what you can do is you can turn down the opacity.
So I think about 80 percent will look good.
All right.
Awesome.
I think this character looks really cool.
I hope you agree.
And if you're creating your own character Oh yours looks awesome too.
I'd love to see it in the Q&A section of this course.
So go ahead and post your artwork to the Q&A section of the course and also post them to the Facebook
group.
All of us would love to see your progress.
And it's really good to get feedback from people and critiques.
I'm always going through the Facebook group and the Q and A section of the course to give people feedback
that want it.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I can't wait to see you in the next one.